engineering of web applications:

Frameworks:

1. Frontend Frameworks
2. Backend Frameworks
web services:
Used to fetch dat from the server
SEO:
To improve rank of website.
Ecosystem of Web:
1. Hardware:
    a. Proocols
    b. Networking
    c. Servers
2. Programming:
    a. HTML
    b. CSS
    c. JavaScript
    d. Php
    e. Databases
    f. APIs
    g. Other Tools
3. Top level:
    a. Security
    b. Integration
    c. Design
    d. Frameworks
    e. SEO
History of Internet:
Basics are related to Telephone Network.
Packet Networks:
    1. Arpanet (1969): Computers communicate through protocols.
    2. X.25 (1974):    Protocol with focus towards business side.
    3. Usenet (1979):  Focus towards unrestricted access.
    Till then there were many different protocols being used for communication. Networks using different protocols couldnot communicate with each other.
    Standard protocol TCP/IP was made and everybody adopted it as a standard. Internet that we use today works on TCP/IP protocol. There are different layers using different protocols in TCP/IP.
   Internet VS World Wide Web:
   Internet is hardware consisting of wires, routers and servers communicating with each other through light signals
   World Wide Web is a software on Internet . Servers, Browserd, HTTP and URL are components of WWW.
   Web is running on top of internet. 
   E-Mail is another software on internet. It doesnot require WWW. It has its own protocol. WWW just provides interface for the E-Mail.
    Other examples of application on web are gaming and FTP (file Transfer Protocol for file sharing). They both use their own protocols.
The Birth of the Web (1990): Sir Tim Berners-Lee (worker a CERN, the large particle physics laboratory near Geneva, Switzerland) proposed HTTP. The purpose was to be able to ahare documents over internet.
Number of hosts of websites exceeded 1 Billion in 2015. It is a little low now.
Web Apps VS Desktop Apps
Advantages of Web Apps:
Accessed through web
Accessible through any internet enabled computer.
No need of installation.
Easy cross platform compaiblity.
Easy to roll out update.
Less security concerns on local computers.
Disadvantages of web apps:
Requires internet to access.
Path for communication with server should be secure.
Issues related to storage and licensing of uploaded dat.
Few browsers may not be able to display the content correctly.
Restriction of access to OS resources. For example storage.
You may need to provide additional plugins for few functionalities.
Static VS Dynamic Websites:
Static:
Extension: HTM/HTML
User requests to see website.
Server locates files from hard drive.
Server sends the file to client
Browser receives and displays tthe website.
Limitations:
Contents cannot be changed in run time.
Such websites are usually nott connected to databases. Just a file server is required from where the file is fetched by the web server.
Dynamic:
Extension: PHP, ASP, ASPX
Contents are generated dynamically.
    1. User requests to see website
    2. server recognizes the request
    3. server executes the dynamic script.
    4. script outputs the HTML file to be executed.
    5. server sends the code and the image files to the user.
    6. Browser displays the files.
If we are using frameworks, not whole webpage is updated again and agin. A script is generated with webpage to update part of webpage.
History of Web:
Web 1.0:
    1. Contents were generated by publisher. Like news website where users cannot publish articles.
    2. Web 2.0 didnt replace web 1.0
    3. Had both static and dynamic websites.
Web 2.0:
    1. Dynamic websites were the main reason behind birth of web 2.0.
    2. The main focus was user generated contents (like in social media apps) and thats the main difference between web 1.0 & 2.0.
Web 3.0:
    1. Not has a standard definition.
    2. Semantic web (For example: If there is an information about a city in a web page, we can mark that it is information related to city.)
    3. Using semantics, the content can be understood by the machine as well.
Web Science: 
Interdisciplinary study of sociotechnical integration of the world wide web. It involves many disciplines. (Daraz involves ecommerce, health report website involves medical science discipline)
